mind your decisions i'm preshtal walker
triangle abc is an equilateral triangle
point p is in the interior such that ap
is equal to 7 bp is equal to 5
and cp is equal to 6. what is the area
of triangle abc
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
one way to solve this problem is by
thinking outside
the triangle we will rotate this
triangle 60 degrees clockwise
now let's examine what we've constructed
first go back to the equilateral
triangle
notice the sum of these two angles will
have a measure
equal to 60 degrees therefore when we
rotate this triangle
it'll have the same measure as the blue
angle
therefore the sum of these two angles
will be equal to 60 degrees
now let's construct the following line
segment notice we have an isosceles
triangle with a vertex angle
equal to 60 degrees the other two angles
will be equal to each other
and the total sum of the three angles
must be equal to 180 degrees
therefore the two equal angles must be
equal to 60 degrees
and we've constructed an equilateral
triangle where each side length is equal
to six
from here let's consider the triangle
with sides of five
six and seven suppose the angle between
the sides five and six
is equal to theta we can use alkashi's
law of cosines to get the following
equation
from here we can solve for cosine of
theta
we'll simplify this expression we can
then solve for sine
theta and this simplifies to be 2 times
the square root of 6
over 5. now suppose
the equilateral triangle has a side
length equal to s
consider the triangle with sides of 5 6
and s we can use alkashi's law of
cosines to get the following equation
the only thing we need to simplify here
is the cosine
of the sum of two angles we will use the
cosine sum formula
and the values we have calculated for
the cosine of theta and the sine of
theta
we substitute those in and we simplify
we can then substitute this in to the
original equation
we then get an expression for s squared
which we can simplify to get
s squared is equal to 55 plus 36 times
the square root of 2.
we can then calculate the area of the
equilateral triangle
because it will be equal to s squared
multiplied by the square root of 3 over
4.
therefore the area of the triangle is
equal to 55 times the square root of
three
over four plus nine times the square
root of six
and that's our answer thanks for making
us one of the best communities on
youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
you